Title:  Add a Link Field to Make a Bookmark

Tags:   bookmarks, link, url

Timestamp: 20191120203619

Seq:    22

Level:  3

Date Added: 2017-10-18 13:48:49

Body: 

A Link Field within Notenik is intended to hold a URL: a hyperlink to a location on the Web (or to a local file, if you'd prefer to use it that way).
You can easily Launch a link from within Notenik by clicking on the Launch Link button in the Toolbar, or by selecting Launch Link under the Note menu, or by using the keyboard shortcut CMD-L, or by double-clicking on the Note's line in the List view or the Tags view. 

Adding a Link to a Note doesn't necessarily reduce the Note to a simple Bookmark, but this is certainly one way to use a Collection of Notes. 

Note that if you use a Link to point to a local folder containing another Notenik Collection, then Launching that Link will result in opening the linked Collection within Notenik (so long as you have given Notenik permission to access that folder).

You may use the Set Local Link command under the Note menu to choose a file or folder to be linked; the resulting 'file:///' style of URL will then replace any value previously stored in the Link field for the current Note.

Note that you can drag a bookmark from a Web browser (such as Safari or Chrome) and drop it into an open Collection's List view in order to add that bookmark to the Collection as a new Note. A bookmark can typically be dragged either from the browser's URL field, at the top of the screen, or from a link within a page. The result of such a drag and drop operation will be a new Note with its Title and Link fields populated.

If you add a Link value without any URL scheme, then the implicit scheme of 'https://' will be assumed. In other words, you need only enter 'Notenik.net' in the link field, but 'https://Notenik.net' is what will be passed to your Web browser when requesting Notenik to open the Link. 

Note than any field label containing the word 'link' will be treated like a Link field, especially in the absence of a field simply labeled 'Link'. 
