Title:  Keeping Track of Your Collections

Seq:    37

Tags:   collection, master

Date Added: 2017-10-27 12:55:15

Body:   
 
If you keep all your Notes in a single Collection, then you will never need to worry about which notes are where. 
If you have multiple Collections of Notes, though, then you will probably want some way of keeping track of all of them. 

Notenik automatically keeps track of Collections you have recently opened, and you can always see this list, and select a Collection to open, by using the Open Recent command under the File menu. 

Note that this list is presented with the most recently opened Collections at the top, and then proceeding downwards to those accessed less recently. 

Collections will drop off of this list for two reasons, and you can control both of these on the Files tab within Notenik's Preferences. 

First, you can set the maximum number of recent files to keep on this list. As you access new Collections, ones accessed the longest time ago will drop off the end of the list. If you set this number high enough, though, then Collections will never "age out" and all of your Collections will remain on the list. 

Second, you can specify when to Purge inaccessible files. Doing this at startup is a good option. This way, if you decide to delete or rename a Collection of notes outside of Notenik, then that old Collection will drop off the list and you won't have to worry about accidentally selecting it. (You might *not* want to use this option, however, if you keep any of your Collections on a drive that's not always available, since these will then fall off the list if the drive is not mounted when you launch Notenik.) 

If you find Notenik really useful, and continue creating more Collections, then at some point you may wish to create a Master Collection. 

In a Master Collection, each Note tracks one of your other Collections. 

You start by executing the Create Master Collection command on the File menu. You will then need to pick a folder in which to store your Master Collection. Notenik will then populate this folder with one Note for each Collection listed on the Open Recent menu.  

Once you have created a Master Collection, then the Open Master Collection command under the File menu becomes available. Use this command to open your Master Collection. 

Now there are several features available to help you manage your Collection of Collections. 

The Link field for each Note in the Master Collection contains a link to the folder for that Collection. When working with the Master Collection, the Launch button becomes an Open button. Click on the Open button to open the selected Collection. 

The Title field for each Collection is initially formed from the words found in the name of the folder for the collection (as well as some of its parent folders, if there is room). This is the same field used to identify each Collection in the Open Recent menu. Modify the Title of a Collection here, and henceforth that shall be the way that Collection is identified on the Open Recent menu. 

If you'd like Notenik to forget about a Collection, then you can delete it from the Master Collection, and that will be the last you will see of it. 

If you lose track of one or more Collections, then you can Open the Master Collection, and then use the Search for Collections item on the File Menu to search within a specified folder for any additional Collections to be added to the Master Collections list. 

You may use the Seq field in the Master Collection to specify a Shortcut that can be used to open that Collection. You may invoke a Shortcut by selecting the Leap using Seq as Shortcut item beneath the File Menu. You will then be presented with a screen allowing you to type a shortcut, or select one by clicking on its corresponding button. 


